# 2017 - JAMB Biology Past Questions and Answers - page 1

1

What is the primary function of cofactors?

A

To aid in enzyme function

B

To synthesize enzymes

C

To inhibit enzymes

D

To break down old enzymes

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**A**

Most enzymes do not function optimally, or even at all, unless bound to other non-protein helper molecules called cofactors.

2

DIAGRAM The diagram represents a

A

hygrometer

B

Wind vane

C

Anemometer

D

rain gauge

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**B**

Wind vane is used to measure the direction of the wind.

3

Coloration of the eye is ______ variation

A

physiological

B

morphological

C

adaptive

D

recessive

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**B**

Eye coloration is a caused by morphological variation

4

Which of the following choices correctly describes the composition of the cell membrane?

A

contains only lipids

B

contains lipids and protein

C

contains lipids and cytosol

D

contains only proteins

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**B**

It consists of a lipid bi-layer with embedded proteins. The basic function of the cell membrane is to protect the cell from its surroundings.

5

The feeding relationship among a set of members of a community is referred to as _______?

A

a food web

B

pyramid of energy

C

a food chain

D

pyramid of member

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**D**

Feeding relationships between organisms in a community are represented by food chains.

6

Nitrogen is released into the atmosphere when ________

A

plants absorbs mineral salt

B

sugar is completely broken down

C

through plant uptake

D

when lightning strike

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**D**

Nitrogen is essential to all living systems. During electrical storms, large amounts of nitrogen are oxidized and united with water to produce an acid that falls to Earth in rainfall and deposits nitrates in the soil.

7

Size, colour and fingerprints are examples of ______

A

physiological variation

B

discontinuous variation

C

morphological variation

D

adaptive variation

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**C**

Morphological variation includes aspects of the outward appearance i.e shape, structure, color, pattern, size.

8

The level of organism in spirogyra and volvox is

A

organ

B

system

C

cell

D

Tissue

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**C**

spirogyra and volvox are cells

9

Which of the following scenarios is an example of cohesion?

A

Water molecules stick to the surface of a mirror.

B

Water sticks to the walls of blood vessels.

C

Water molecules stay on the tip of a pine needle because the water is attracted to the surface of the needle.

D

Water molecules stick to one another and form a bead

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**D**

Cohesion is an ability of water molecule to stick to one another due to the presence of hydrogen bonding

10

The common thing in plant and animal cell is

A

chloroplast

B

cell wall

C

nucleus

D

centrioles

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**C**

Nucleus is a specialized structure occurring in most cells. The nucleus controls and regulates the activities of the cell.

Loading lesson…
