# 2018 - JAMB Biology Past Questions and Answers - page 1

1

A group of closely related organisms capable of interbreeding to produce the fertile offspring are known as members of a

A

Kingdom

B

class

C

family

D

species

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**D**

An example of a species is all human beings.

2

A beaker of pond water containing few specimens of Euglena was placed in a dark room for two weeks. At the end of this period, the specimens of Euglena were still alive because they were

A

able to carry out holozoic nutrition

B

able to carry out photosynthesis using carbon dioxide in the pond water

C

better adapted to life in darkness than to life in light

D

not overcrowded

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**A**

Holozoic nutrition is a type of heterotrophic nutrition that is characterized by the ingestion and internal processing of gaseous, liquid or solid food particles.

3

The cytoplasm of a cell is considered a very important component because it

A

regulates the amount of energy in the cell

B

suspends all cell organelles

C

is the outermost part of the cell

D

is solely responsible for cell division

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**B**

Most of the important activities of the cell occur in the cytoplasm. It helps to fill out the cell and keeps organelles in their place.

4

DIAGRAM After an hour, the level of water in the thistle funnel will

A

rise

B

fall

C

remain the same

D

double

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**A**

5

DIAGRAM The experiment above is used to demonstrate the process of

A

transportation

B

water culture

C

diffusion

D

osmosis

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**D**

Osmosis a process by which molecules of a solvent tend to pass through a semipermeable membrane from a less concentrated solution into a more concentrated one.

6

DIAGRAM In plant cells, the role of the membrane is played by the

A

nucleolus

B

cell wall

C

cytoplasm

D

mitochondrion

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**B**

7

Red blood cells were found to have burst open after being placed in distill for an hour. This phenomenon is known as

A

plasmolysis

B

diffusion

C

haemolysis

D

wilting

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**C**

Haemolysis is the rupture or destruction of red blood cells.

8

The curvature movement of plants in response to the stimulus of water is called

A

hydrotropism

B

geotropism

C

Phototropism

D

thigmotropism

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**A**

9

The longest bone in the body is the

A

humerous

B

femur

C

scapula

D

tibia

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**B**

Femur is your thighbone. It is the longest and strongest bone in your body.

Loading lesson…
