# 2019 - JAMB Biology Past Questions and Answers - page 1

1

Which of the following is a behavioural adaptation that protects prey from predators?

A

Hibernation

B

Shedding of leaves

C

Secreting irritating fluid

D

Dormancy

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**C**

Secreting irritating fluid is a behavioural adaptation that protects preys from predators.

2

The period of inactivity seen in some animals during long period of heat or drought is

A

Migration

B

Aestivation

C

Hibernation

D

Adaptation

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**B**

Aestivation is a state of animal dormancy, similar to hibernation. It takes place during times of heat and dryness.

3

The insect trapping movements of the leaves of the venus fly trap is a behavioural adaptation for

A

support

B

surviving adverse weather conditions

C

obtaining food

D

dormancy

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**C**

Insect traping movement of leaves is a behavioural adaptation for obtaining food.

4

Animals are said to gregarious when

A

they survive adverse conditions of cold weather

B

they transmit information from one individual to another

C

they are of the same species moving together in a group

D

they give an alarm to alert others to show the normal protective behaviour of the group when danger threatens

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**C**

Gregarious behaviour is commonly associated with social insects that live in communal colonies.

5

The type of nutrition shown by spirogyra is

A

Symbiosis

B

Holozoic

C

Chemosynthetic

D

Holophytic

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**D**

Spirogyra undergoes holophytic nutrition. Spirogyra's mode of nutrition is photosynthesis.

6

Raw materials required by green plants to manufacture their food are

A

mainly fluids

B

inorganic substances

C

living materials

D

mainly gases

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**B**

Chlorophyll, sunlight, and raw materials are needed by plants to manufacture their food.

7

Which of the following pairs of organisms are photosynthetic?

A

Amoeba and paramecium

B

Euglena and chlamydomonas

C

Volvox and Rhizopus

D

Nostoc and plasmodium

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**B**

Euglena and Chlamydomonas are photosynthetic. They both possess features of plants which enables them to produce their food.

8

The type of nutrition in which two organisms of different species live together and derive nutrients from each other is

A

symbiotic nutrition

B

saprophytic nutrition

C

holozoic nutrition

D

holophytic nutrition

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**A**

Symbiotic nutrition is the relationship between the organisms in which they share their nutrition and shelter.

9

Which of the following statement about the similarities in plant and animal transport is correct?

A

Materials and hormones are transported in fluid form

B

The transport medium is made up of only tissues

C

Their materials are transported in the same vessels

D

Diffusion is not required

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**A**

Both animals and plants have more than one type of tissue which is specialised to make transport an efficient process.

10

Which of the following describes the function of lymph

A

Temperature regulation

B

Production of antibodies

C

Engulfing

D

Body defence

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**D**

Lymph help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials.

Loading lesson…
