# 2021 - JAMB Biology Past Questions and Answers - page 1

1

One of the functions of the xylem is?

A

strengthening the stem

B

manufacturing food

C

reducing loss of water

D

conducting manufactured food

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**A**

xylem, plant vascular tissue that conveys water and dissolved minerals from the roots to the rest of the plant and also provides physical support.

2

Which of the statements below is not characteristic of wind-pollinated flowers?

A

Stigmas are usually large and feathery

B

Nectary is usually absent

C

The pollen grains have rough spiny surfaces

D

The flowers are not scented.

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**C**

Wind-pollinated flowers have pollen that is smooth, light and easily airborne, not rough and spiny.

3

Some of the features of an animal are scales, teeth, nares, and backbone. The animal is likely to be a?

A

toad

B

bird

C

lizard

D

rat

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**C**

Reptiles such as the lizard have a dry skin with scales, teeth, and a backbone.

4

Choose the sequence which represents the correct order of organisms in a food chain

A

Grass, snake, toad, grasshopper, hawk

B

Grass, grasshopper, toad, snake, hawk

C

Grass, grasshopper, snake, toad, hawk.

D

Grass, snake, grasshopper, toad, hawk

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**B**

The functional group in a food chain include: Primary producer to Primary consumer to Secondary consumer: Grass, grasshopper, toad, snake, hawk.

5

Flatworms and roundworms are said to be invertebrates because?

A

they are small animals

B

they can live inside the vertebrates

C

some of them are unicellular

D

they have no backbones

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**D**

Invertebrates are animals that neither possess nor develop a vertebral column, derived from the notochord.

6

When a Spirogyra cell is immersed in a salt solution more concentrated than its cell sap, it?

A

remains unchanged

B

takes tip water and burst

C

absorbs a little water

D

loses water and shrivels

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**D**

Exosmosis is the movement of water outside the cells when a cell is placed in a hypertonic solution. The cell becomes flaccid.

7

Which of the following is NOT regarded as a pollutant on land or in the air?

A

Smoke

B

Nitrogen

C

Noise

D

Sulphur dioxide

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**B**

Nitrogen is a colourless, odourless, tasteless gas that is the most plentiful element in Earth's atmosphere and is a constituent of all living matter; it is not a pollutant.

8

The initial volume of water poured into a bag of dry soil was 50ml and the amount that drained through was 35mI. The percentage water content of the fully soaked soil is therefore?

A

46.7

B

25.0

C

20.0

D

30.0

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**D**

Percentage of water content retained = (50 - 35)/50 * 100 = 30%

9

When the original king and queen of termites die, they are replaced by

A

the king and queen of another colony

B

some adult reproductives from the same colony

C

some adult workers which are specially fed to breed

D

developing nymphs nurtured as secondary reproductives

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**D**

When the queen dies, secondary reproductives may be produced from developing nymphs.

10

In demonstrating the importance of mineral elements in plants, the culture bottle must be darkened to?

A

prevent algal growth in culture solution

B

allow root growth

C

prevent breakdown of mineral elements

D

prevents photosynthesis in the root

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**A**

Always use a completely opaque water storage tank - Algae uses photosynthesis to reproduce.

Loading lesson…
