# 2022 - JAMB Biology Past Questions and Answers - page 1

1

sources of air pollutants are?

A

industrial chimneys, burning fossil oils and river dams

B

sulphurdioxide, acid rain and pesticides

C

sulphur dioxide, vehicle exhausts, and aerosols

D

sewage,smoke and old vehicles

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**C**

Common sources of air pollution include household combustion devices, motor vehicles, industrial facilities, and forest fires.

2

The body of a snail is divided into head?

A

thorax and abdomen

B

visceral mass and abdomen

C

thorax and foot

D

visceral mass and foot

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**D**

The main parts of a snail's body include the head, the visceral hump, and the foot.

3

An adaptation for defense in animals is?

A

croaking of a male toad

B

basking in lizard

C

spines in porcupine fish

D

huddling together of penguins

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**C**

The body of the porcupine fish is covered in spines used as a defence mechanism.

4

The movement of Euglena towards the source of light is a?

A

tropic movement

B

tactic movement

C

nastic movement

D

kinetic movement

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**B**

This change in direction of movement in response to an external stimulus is called taxis and is a tactic movement.

5

During mitosis, the stage at which chromosomes lines up around the equator is?

A

telophase

B

metasphase

C

anaphase

D

prophase

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**B**

The stages of mitosis are prophase, prometaphase, metaphase, anaphase, and telophase. During metaphase chromosomes line up at the equator.

6

The waste product of insects is?

A

uric acid

B

urine

C

Mucilage

D

sweat

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**A**

The primary nitrogenous waste product produced by the majority of terrestrial insects is uric acid.

7

Succession that occurs on an abandoned farm land is?

A

tertiary

B

secondary

C

primary

D

climax

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**C**

8

In Nigeria, Southern Guinea Savanna is found in?

A

Borno and Sokoto

B

Kogi and Kwara

C

Kaduna and Cross River

D

Kano and Niger

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**B**

The Southern Guinea Savanna vegetation zone in Nigeria covers states like Kogi and Kwara in the central region.

9

Which of the following is associated with the dark stage of photosynthesis?

A

Assimilation of Carbon(IV)oxide

B

Photophosphorylation

C

Photolysis

D

Excitation of chlorophyll

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**A**

The dark stage converts carbon dioxide and other compounds into sugars without requiring light.

10

The part of mammalian skin that excretes metabolic wastes is?

A

sweat gland

B

horny layer

C

Malpighian layer

D

sebaceous gland

Answer▼

Correct Answer:
**A**

The body removes waste by secreting water, sodium salts, and nitrogenous waste onto the skin surface using sweat glands.

Loading lesson…
